docs: add Renderer to deprecations doc (#31419)
angular/angular: aio/content/guide/deprecations.md

| `MockBackend` | [`HttpTestingController`](/api/common/http/testing/HttpTestingController) |
| `MockConnection` | [`HttpTestingController`](/api/common/http/testing/HttpTestingController) |

## Renderer to Renderer2 migration

### Migration Overview

> The `Renderer` class has been marked as deprecated since Angular version 4, however as there are apps that still depend on it, this section describes the process of migrating to the newer `Renderer2` API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `Renderer` class has been marked as deprecated since Angular version 4. This section provides guidance on migrating from this deprecated API to the newer `Renderer2` API and what it means for your app.
```

Author: Done.

> ### Why do we need this migration?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Why should I migrate to Renderer2?
```

Author: Done.

> `Renderer2` supports a similar set of functionality to `Renderer`, however migration takes some attention to detail. The `Renderer` API surface is large, with 19 methods, and automating the migration to `Renderer2` simplifies the process for developers in preparation for **Angular version 9.0.0**, which the migration targets.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The deprecated `Renderer` class has been removed in version 9 of Angular, so it's necessary to migrate to a supported API.  Using `Renderer2` is the recommended strategy because it supports a similar set of functionality to `Renderer`. The API surface is quite large (with 19 methods), but the schematic should simplify this process for your applications.
```

Author: Done.

> Currently, Ivy uses `Renderer2` or the DOM, and doesn't support `Renderer`. By migrating from `Renderer` to `Renderer2`, you avoid having to add a special case that calls the correct API for the old `Renderer`&mdash;in addition to the existing logic for `Renderer2` and DOM&mdash;such as `attribute` instructions, `property` instructions, and `style` instructions. Migration helps you keep code size down and mitigate code complexity.

Reviewer: I think we can skip this section (there's no way to use the old Renderer, since we plan on deleting it)

Author: Done.

### Is there action required on my end?

> No. The automated migration process should handle most cases with the exception of `animate()`/`setDebugInfo()`, which already aren’t supported.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
No. The schematic should handle most cases with the exception of `Renderer.animate()` and `Renderer.setDebugInfo()`, which already aren’t supported.
```

Author: Done.

> ### What are the helper methods? Why are they necessary?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### What are the `__ngRendererX` helper methods? Why are they necessary?
```

Author: Dnoe.

> Some methods either don't have exact equivalents in `Renderer2`, or they correspond to more than one expression. For example, both renderers have a `createElement()` method, however they're not equal because a call such as `renderer.createElement(parentNode, namespaceAndName)` in the `Renderer` corresponds to the following block of code in `Renderer2`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some methods either don't have exact equivalents in `Renderer2`, or they correspond to more than one expression. For example, both renderers have a `createElement()` method, but they're not equal because a call such as `renderer.createElement(parentNode, namespaceAndName)` in the `Renderer` corresponds to the following block of code in `Renderer2`:
```

Author: Done.

```ts
const [namespace, name] = splitNamespace(namespaceAndName);
const el = renderer.createElement(name, namespace);
if (parentNode) {
  renderer.appendChild(parentNode, el);
}
return el;
```

> Migration has to guarantee that the return values of functions and types of variables stay the same. To handle the majority of cases safely, the migration process declares helper functions at the bottom of the user's file. These helpers encapsulate your own logic and keep the replacements inside your code down to a single function call. Here's an example of how the `createElement()` migration looks:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Migration has to guarantee that the return values of functions and types of variables stay the same. To handle the majority of cases safely, the schematic declares helper functions at the bottom of the user's file. These helpers encapsulate your own logic and keep the replacements inside your code down to a single function call. Here's an example of how the `createElement()` migration looks:
```

Author: Done.

**Before:**

```ts
public createAndAppendElement() {
  const el = this.renderer.createElement('span');
  el.textContent = 'hello world';
  return el;
}
```

**After:**

<code-example linenums=false>

public createAndAppendElement() {
  const el = ngRendererCreateElement(this.renderer, this.element, 'span');
  el.textContent = 'hello world';
  return el;
}
// Generated code at the bottom of the file

> ngRendererCreateElement(renderer: any, parentNode: any, nameAndNamespace: any) {

Reviewer 2: Note that the helpers are prefixed with `__ng` (e.g. `__ngRendererCreateElementHelper`). We went back and forth a bit in the PR and we probably forgot to update the doc.

Author: Oh, thank you @crisbeto! I'll fix it.

  const [namespace, name] = __ngRendererSplitNamespace(namespaceAndName);
  const el = renderer.createElement(name, namespace);
  if (parentNode) {
    renderer.appendChild(parentNode, el);
  }
  return el;
}
__ngRendererSplitNamespace(nameAndNamespace: any) {
  // returns the split name and namespace
}

</code-example>

> When implementing these helper functions, migration ensures that they're only declared once per file and that their names are unique enough that there's a small chance of colliding with pre-existing functions in your code. Migration also keeps their parameter types as `any` so that it doesn't have to insert extra logic that ensures that their values have the correct type.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When implementing these helper functions, migration ensures that they're only declared once per file and that their names are unique enough that there's a small chance of colliding with pre-existing functions in your code. The schematic also keeps their parameter types as `any` so that it doesn't have to insert extra logic that ensures that their values have the correct type.
```

Author: Done.

### I’m a library author. Should I run this migration?

**Library authors should definitely use this migration to move away from the `Renderer`.**

### Full list of method migrations

The following table shows all methods that the migration maps from `Renderer` to `Renderer2`.

|Renderer|Renderer2|
|---|---|

> |listen(renderElement, name, callback)|listen(renderElement, name, callback)|

Reviewer: Can we add backticks around all of these function calls?

Author: Done.

|setElementAttribute(el, name, value?)|attributeValue == null ? removeAttribute(el, name) : setAttribute(el, name, value)
|createText(parentElement, value, debugInfo?)|appendChild(parentElement, createText(value))|
|createTemplateAnchor(parentElement)|appendChild(parentElement, createComment(''))|
|setElementClass(renderElement, className, isAdd)|isAdd ? addClass(renderElement, className) : removeClass(renderElement, className)|
|projectNodes(parentElement, nodes)|for (let i = 0; i < nodes.length; i<ins></ins>) { appendChild(parentElement, nodes<i>); }|
|attachViewAfter(node, viewRootNodes)|const parentElement = parentNode(node); const nextSibling = nextSibling(node); for (let i = 0; i < viewRootNodes.length; i<ins></ins>) { insertBefore(parentElement, viewRootNodes<i>, nextSibling);}|
|detachView(viewRootNodes)|for (let i = 0; i < viewRootNodes.length; i<ins></ins>) {const node = viewRootNodes<i>; const parentElement = parentNode(node); removeChild(parentElement, node);}|
|destroyView(hostElement, viewAllNodes)|for (let i = 0; i < viewAllNodes.length; i<ins></ins>) { destroyNode(viewAllNodes<i>); }|

> |setBindingDebugInfo()|Should be dropped.|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|setBindingDebugInfo()|This function is a noop in `Renderer2`.|
```

Author: Done.

|createViewRoot(hostElement)|Should be replaced with a reference to `hostElement`|
|invokeElementMethod(renderElement, methodName, args?)|(renderElement as any)<methodName>.apply(renderElement, args);|

> |animate(element, startingStyles, keyframes, duration, delay, easing, previousPlayers?)|Throw an error (as the old animate function does)|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|animate(element, startingStyles, keyframes, duration, delay, easing, previousPlayers?)|Throws an error (same behavior as `Renderer.animate()`)
```

Author: Done.

**Before:**

```ts
public createAndAppendElement() {
  const el = this.renderer.createElement('span');
  el.textContent = 'hello world';
  return el;
}
```

**After:**

<code-example linenums=false>

public createAndAppendElement() {
  const el = __ngRendererCreateElement(this.renderer, this.element, 'span');
  el.textContent = 'hello world';
  return el;
}
// Generated code at the bottom of the file
__ngRendererCreateElement(renderer: any, parentNode: any, nameAndNamespace: any) {
  const [namespace, name] = __ngRendererSplitNamespace(namespaceAndName);
  const el = renderer.createElement(name, namespace);
  if (parentNode) {
    renderer.appendChild(parentNode, el);
  }
  return el;
}
__ngRendererSplitNamespace(nameAndNamespace: any) {
  // returns the split name and namespace
}

</code-example>

> When implementing these helper functions, migration ensures that they're only declared once per file and that their names are unique enough that there's a small chance of colliding with pre-existing functions in your code. The schematic also keeps their parameter types as `any` so that it doesn't have to insert extra logic that ensures that their values have the correct type.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When implementing these helper functions, the schematic ensures that they're only declared once per file and that their names are unique enough that there's a small chance of colliding with pre-existing functions in your code. The schematic also keeps their parameter types as `any` so that it doesn't have to insert extra logic that ensures that their values have the correct type.
```

Author: Fixed!

### I’m a library author. Should I run this migration?

> **Library authors should definitely use this migration to move away from the `Renderer`.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Library authors should definitely use this migration to move away from the `Renderer`. Otherwise, the libraries won't work with applications built with version 9.**
```

Author: Fixed!
